5G phones in 2020: Galaxy Note 20, Pixel 5, OnePlus Nord, LG Velvet and more

Here are the top 5G phones that connect to the next-gen network -- and a look ahead at what's coming from other companies.

Though 
 kicked off in 2019, you'll see even more 5G phones throughout this year and next. In the US it's currently live in select cities for Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile and other regional carriers. The 5G networks for 
 are live too.
Though 
, 5G is the next generation of mobile connectivity. 
 works super-fast and 
 from the new network, including the Internet of Things, drones and self-driving cars. Samsung, the 
, has several under its belt including the 
 phones, the 
 and the more budget-friendly 
.
Most people will likely experience the benefits of a robust 5G network only through a 5G phone. After all, the grand promises carriers and chipmakers are making with 5G coverage don't mean much if you can't access 5G service with your own device. To help you keep tabs on all the latest 5G phones and when we can expect more, here's what the major phone-makers are offering.
: 
As 5G networks all over the world continue to be built out, expect more phone-makers that don't have 5G phones yet to join the fray soon. Here's where other companies stand on 5G support and 5G adoption.
Rumors are floating that Apple will include 5G connectivity this year for its upcoming 
. More specifically, Apple analyst Ming-chi Kuo predicts 
. There are a couple of reasons why the company didn't jump on the trend in 2019.
First, Apple usually isn't the first in on mobile trends, instead preferring to wait before emerging wireless technologies are widespread before committing to them. It was behind its competitors in making phones with 3G and 4G LTE connectivity when those networks launched. 
Second, Apple stopped working with the leading 5G modem provider, Qualcomm, 
. The two companies 
 in April 2019, and then agreed to 
. This led to Apple's previous partner of 5G modems, Intel, to ultimately 
 altogether and 
 for $1 billion. Apple is still working with Qualcomm, but it got started too late to launch a 5G iPhone last year. 
Apple did not respond for a request to comment.
Instead of a phone, Taiwanese electronics company HTC has a 
. Available last year 
, but not currently on sale, the hub could connect up to 20 people simultaneously. Equipped with a 5-inch display, audio speakers and Android Pie software, the device was also a media hub that you could make video calls with or use to check mail.
