9 ingenious ways to give your old Android phone new life

Instead of selling your phone, turn it into something useful, like a Google Home speaker or a webcam.

You've finally decided to buy a new Android phone -- maybe the 
 or 
 -- but now you have to decide what to do with your old one. Sure, you could 
 your previous device (or those other phones you found in a drawer) but it's not the only approach. 
If your phone's too old to command a high trade-in value, or you're looking to save some money on a webcam or a Google Home, or maybe you just like to tinker, there are some pretty ingenious ways to repurpose your old device and turn it into something you'll actually want to use.
After all, 
 are small, powerful computers with storage space and a camera. Your phone makes a handy substitute for lots of other electronics -- you can even 
 or diagnose your car's mechanical problems. Read on!
Now is a great time to 
. You can use a number of free apps -- including 
 -- to improve the quality of your video chats during 
. Getting started is easy, and we give you 
. Remember, even an older phone's main camera could still be better than your laptop's built-in webcam -- or no webcam at all.
You can play 
 everywhere you go when you 
. All you need to get started is a compatible Android phone and a 
. 
In order to play the games, you'll need to purchase Game Boy cartridges (unless you still have them). But you can also play 
 apps if you don't have the retro cartridges.
Images take up so much storage space on your phone, so store them on your old phone. You can use your new device to 
 and then send them to your older phone to free up space.
You can also use your old phone as a camera and take it places you normally wouldn't want to take your new phone. For example, if you go to the lake or beach, you can take photos without worrying as much about dropping your phone in the water.
It's great having one remote that can do everything -- think 
, the Adam Sandler movie. OK, maybe not that extreme. But being able to control all of your devices from one remote is a relief. Download a remote control app, such as 
 and then sync your phone to devices including your 
, 
 and 
. 
If you have 
, you can sync your phone to those as well. Follow these tips on 
 so you never have to wonder where your TV remote is hiding again.
Repurposing your Android phone to be a 
 smart speaker is simple and requires no app downloads. Make sure your phone is updated to the latest Android OS so you have "OK, 
." Next, you'll need to find a 
 to pair your phone with. Make sure both devices stay plugged in and on at all times. You'll be ready to give 
 in no time. The best part is you won't have to spend $129 on a Google Home. Learn more about 
.
Feel secure by turning your old phone into a 
. Download a security camera app, like 
 (can also use with 
) to get started. Check on your house while you're at work to make sure all is well. Place the phone in the main room of the house in a spot where you have the best view. 
When you're home, set it up outside (hidden, of course) to see who's knocking on your door or to see any suspicious activity. Maybe you'll find it's just a raccoon that's been leaving candy wrappers in your yard and not your neighbor's kid.
Instead of running into your child's room every time you think you hear crying or a strange noise, check to see if your baby is OK by 
. 
You can set your old phone up in the room and access it from your current phone by installing 
 on both devices. You can also use a baby monitor app like 
. We haven't tested them on real babies, but the customer ratings are excellent. You'll feel better knowing that you can be in any room and still see your baby.
It can be annoying when your wireless mouse dies on you with no warning. It helps to have a backup, and you can turn your phone into a mouse in no time. You'll need to download an app, such as 
, in order to do so. 
Once you have the app, connect your phone and desktop to the same Wi-Fi network and say bye-bye to that old-school mouse. Keep it in your laptop case for when you're on the go and stop by a coffee shop to get some work done.
Free up storage space on your new phone by using your old phone as a media player. Since you have a new phone, you can wipe all the data off your old phone (except your music and music apps). 
You'll be able to add as many songs as your old phone will allow without worrying about how much storage you're using. Hook it up to your surround-sound speaker if you're having a party and let the fun begin.
The great thing is you'll be able to leave it in one place and won't have to worry about incoming calls and messages interrupting your tunes.
Now that you've got some cool new ideas for your phone, here's 
, 
 without damaging it and 
.
