Best monitors under $200 you can get right now

A second (or third) monitor can make working from home much more productive. You don't have to pay much to get a decent one from Dell, LG, BenQ or others ASAP.

If you've suddenly found yourself on a 
, you can still find a decent monitor for less than $200. But act fast if you find a cheap monitor you want -- thanks to so many people currently 
, they're going in and out of stock like 
 doorbusters. Or discontinued and gone like the Acer G246HYL, which was among the first batch of sub-$200 monitors that we bought initially to try out. We're working on more tryouts for future updates.            
When buying a budget monitor, you should absolutely check out the listing of what's in the box. Make sure that it's not missing items that would drive the price above that threshold, like a stand or appropriate cables. The stand might not be an issue if you're planning to use the 
 to put it on a wall or arm. But in that case, you should ensure the mount screws on the back of the monitor match yours: The bulk of these have 100 by 100 mm mounts, though in some cases, they don't support a VESA mount at all.              
Got a Mac? If it's an old 
 and has an 
 port, or an 
 or 
, you won't have a problem. More modern MacBooks with USB-C/Thunderbolt 3 connections will require an adapter or cable with conversion built-in. You may also need to fiddle with the resolution and scaling settings in 
, since it natively prefers a 16:10 aspect ratio, not the 16:9 aspect ratio that's much more popular on Windows.              
 
            
Unless you're a hardcore gamer or creative professional, many of the most technical specs -- color gamut and latency, for example -- won't really matter to you. You should always take them with a grain of salt, anyway.   
For the money, you can generally expect to get:              
Upping your budget to between $200 and $300 will bring more 32-inch options and 2,560x1,440 resolution. And, of course, the more you're willing to spend, the more you're likely to find something in stock and ready to ship.              
 
             
