Dune: Everything you need to know about Denis Villeneuve's sci-fi epic

See the new trailer and find out about the cast, plot details, release date and more.

After Arrival and 
, director 
 isn't slowing down with the complicated sci-fi blockbusters. His next epic: Dune. Adapted from the lauded book series by Frank Herbert, Dune 2020 should be very different from director 
 famously divisive 
.
Here's everything we know about the new Dune.
Timothée Chalamet stars as young antihero Paul Atreides. Oscar Isaac plays Paul's father, Duke Leto Atreides. Rebecca Ferguson plays his mother, Lady Jessica. Actor Zendaya plays Paul's love interest, a mysterious woman with glowing blue eyes named Chani. The two warriors Gurney Halleck and Duncan Idaho who end up training Paul in combat are played by Josh Brolin and Jason Momoa.
Stilgar, the leader of indigenous people called Fremen is played by Javier Bardem. Stellan Skarsgard plays Baron Vladimir -- the leader of House Harkonnen from Arrakis that battles with the Atreides family.
Charlotte Rampling plays the reverend mother of an order of women called the Bene Gesserit who can read and control minds. Paul's own mother Jessica is also part of the Bene Gesserit.
Sharon Duncan-Brewster plays an ecologist and an independent power broker Dr. Liet Kynes who tries to keep the peace.
Paul Atreides grows up in an aristocratic family on the planet Caladan. But when Paul's father Duke Leto Atreides accepts the job of supervising the dangerous desert planet Arrakis (known as Dune), everything changes in Paul's life. So Leto brings his Bene Gesserit lover Lady Jessica, his son Paul and his advisers to Arrakis.
Arrakis is the only source of the most valuable substance in the universe called the spice (also called melange). Spice is really a powerful drug that can prolong human life and provide super-human mind control powers. The spice can enable intergalactic travelers to "fold space" -- and travel faster than the speed of light.
However, this new job promotion could actually be a trap made by Leto's enemies who want to be rid of him. Leto ends up clashing with the powerful criminal family known as the House Harkonnen, which is led by the monstrous Baron Vladimir who looks like a humanoid rhino.
Despite all the odds, Leto manages to take control of the spice mining operation. But his son Paul seems to be growing stronger with his abilities to see into the future, and it looks a bit grim. 
There is war ahead. Oh, and then there are those giant man-eating sandworms that make everything feel extra dire.
Here's the official synopsis:
"A mythic and emotionally charged hero's journey, Dune tells the story of Paul Atreides, a brilliant and gifted young man born into a great destiny beyond his understanding, who must travel to the most dangerous planet in the universe to ensure the future of his family and his people."
"As malevolent forces explode into conflict over the planet's exclusive supply of the most precious resource in existence-a commodity capable of unlocking humanity's greatest potential-only those who can conquer their fear will survive."
The 
 debuted on Sept. 9. It shows Paul learning to hone both his fighting and ESP-like skills. We also see Arrakis, along with its inhabitants. The movie trailer is gritty, dark and downright epic. But this new take on Dune also shows that the movie will focus quite a bit on not only Paul's hero's journey (with a little help from a mysterious glowing blue-eyed girl from his visions) but will also feature grand battles between warring factions on the planet. 
We also hear Paul say one of the most memorable lines from Dune: "Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear, and I will permit it to pass over me. When the fear has gone, there will be nothing. Only I will remain."
Director David Lynch's 1984 film, which starred Kyle MacLachlan as Paul Atreides, may have eventually attained cult status, but when it was released it was a box office and critical flop. The new Dune is not a remake of Lynch's revision but something totally different, with a closer connection to the book.
"When I saw Lynch's adaptation, I was impressed, but it was not what I had dreamed of, so I'm trying to make the adaptation of my dreams," 
. "I'm going back to the book, and going to the images that came out when I read it."
 to Dune in 2016. Warner Bros. is distributing the movie with 
. Villeneuve is best known for his movies 
 and 
.
Villeneuve, 
 (
) and 
 (
) wrote the screenplay. Dune is based on the sci-fi fantasy novel series by Frank Herbert.
Frank Herbert wrote six novels in the Dune series, beginning in 1965. The books were adapted into 
 1984 movie, as well as 
. Dune remakes aren't always easy to get off the ground -- a failed 1970s version masterminded by cult director 
 was the subject of the entertaining documentary 
.
 language creator 
 is 
 for the film. Award-winning film composer Hans Zimmer will be 
.
Dune debuts in theaters on Dec. 18, 2020.
"I look forward to a time when we can all get together again as Dune was made to be seen on the big screen," 
.
 as Paul Atreides
 as Lady Jessica
 as Duke Leto Atreides
 as Gurney Halleck
 as Baron Vladimir Harkonnen
 as Glossu Rabban
 as Thufir Hawat
 as Chani
 as Piter De Vries
 as Dr. Wellington Yueh
 as Dr. Liet-Kynes
 as Gaius Helen Mohiam
 as Duncan Idaho
 as Stilgar
