Enjoy beloved photos with this 10.1-inch digital photo frame for $68

Back in stock! Stop leaving your best snapshots trapped on your phone and in photo albums.

I've made no secret of my love for digital photo frames, something I feel every household should have. (Listen to my recent podcast episode, below, devoted to the subject.) Think about it: Instead of looking at just a single framed photo, you get to look at thousands in a never-ending slideshow. It's a great way to actually do something with all those pictures you take with your phone.   
As a general rule I steer clear of the off-brand frames, usually because the companion apps tend to be subpar. But this is a little different, as I'll explain below. Here's the deal: For a limited time, and while supplies last, the 
 when you clip the on-page $10-off coupon and then apply promo code 
 at checkout. It's available with either a black or brown frame. Regular price: $130. This sold out quickly last time; it's back in stock as of this morning.  
The hardware is pretty straightforward: 10.1-inch IPS touchscreen, 1,280x800-pixel resolution (which is 
 1080p, despite what the listing says), 16GB of expandable onboard storage. The image auto-rotates depending on the orientation of the frame, and you can set "sleep" hours to save electricity.  
Odd though it may sound, software makes or breaks a device like this. The Aeezo frame relies on a third-party app called 
, which is 
 and 
 and has overwhelmingly positive reviews on both platforms.   
With it you can add photos directly from your phone or tablet library, and invite friends and family to send pictures as well. (
 I previously mentioned that this frame allows you to email photos directly to it and import photos from Facebook and Instagram. These features are 
 supported here. I apologize for the error.)
I haven't tried Frameo yet, nor do I have any hands-on experience with this frame (again: yet). Aeezo is a fairly new seller on Amazon. Fakespot and ReviewMeta are at odds regarding the 50 
 positive user ratings. The former says "insufficient reliable reviews"; the latter, "30 actual reviews and they're all legit." (Yeah: Confusing.)   
My takeaway: Great price for a 10-inch frame supported by a top-rated app. If you don't like it, return it.   
Your thoughts?   
  
CNET's Cheapskate scours the web for great deals on tech products and much more. For the latest deals and updates, follow the Cheapskate 
 and 
. Find more great buys on the 
 and check out our 
 for the latest promo codes from 
, 
, 
 and 
. Questions about the Cheapskate blog? Find the answers on our 
.    
