How to watch Premier League games in the US without cable

Soccer fans can watch the English league's 2020-21 season, no cable subscription necessary.

If you blinked, you may have missed the Premier League's offseason. The 
 outbreak caused a delay in the English soccer season, which suspended play in the spring and didn't conclude until the end of July. 
 and begins its title defense on Saturday, Sept. 12 when the 2020-21 Premier League season gets underway.
Sports-starved fans in the US can watch Premier League games live on NBC, NBCSN, USA Network and NBC's new streaming service, 
. Most matches are on NBCSN or Peacock, with the occasional match shown Saturday afternoon on NBC. Keep reading to see your options for watching English soccer this season. 
There are four heavy favorites. Manchester City finished as the runner-up to Liverpool last season and 
 to capture the 2020-21 Premier League title, despite 
. Liverpool has the next-best odds to win the league followed by Chelsea -- and its 
 -- and Manchester United.
Bournemouth, Norwich City and Watford finished at the bottom of the standings last season and have been relegated to the second division, the EFL Championship. Replacing the relegated clubs and promoted to the top flight are Fulham, Leeds United and West Bromwich Albion, all storied teams delighted to be returning to the Premier League.
The first matchday of the 2020-21 season runs from Saturday to Monday, with four games on NBCSN, three games on Peacock and one game on NBC. No fans will be in attendance until October at the earliest, the 
.
Here's the US broadcast schedule for the week (all times ET): 
US residents don't need a cable or satellite TV subscription in order to watch NBC, NBCSN or USA Network -- or authenticate an account in order to stream the matches on 
 or the 
. All of the major 
 include NBC, NBCSN and USA Network, and you can use a live TV streaming subscription to log in to NBC Sports livestreams online.   
Peacock will show 175 live matches throughout the season and will also have full-game replays available on-demand for all 380 matches of the 2020-21 season. Replays will be available after 9 p.m. ET (6 p.m. PT) the day of the match.
If you live in an area with good reception, you can watch the Premier League games shown on NBC for free just by attaching an 
 to nearly any TV. 
All of the live TV streaming services above offer free trials (except Peacock, which just has a free tier), and all allow you to cancel anytime and require a solid internet connection. Looking for more information? 
.   
