The best electric scooters and skateboards for 2020

Whether it's for commuting or for fun (or a little of both) these electric scooters will get you where you're going.

With people still being urged to 
 and 
 everywhere operating on limited routes and schedules, having an e-bike or 
 might make sense for essential 
 -- it's an easy way to drop needed goods off with vulnerable family and friends as 
. Perhaps you want to cover longer distances faster than walking or maybe you've been looking for ways to reduce your carbon footprint -- all good reasons to consider a rideable.   
I've learned a lot from testing different types of battery-operated rideables, some tested before the 
 outbreak, others more recently, on a commute through sections of midtown Manhattan, 
 or down the 
.   
This roundup, which I'll update as I review more products, covers electric scooters and skateboard-like devices. 
 get their own list. Why would you want a scooter over a more traditional bike? Electric scooters are nimble and smaller, and are easy to take on 
, leave in the trunk of your car or store at home.  
  
I've included water resistance ratings when available for each electric scooter. IP ratings, which stands for ingress protection, lets you know the dust- or water-resistance of a product. For example, if something has an IP54 rating, the first number after the letters refers to resistance to solids while the second refers to moisture. Read more in our 
.     
Also, and let's not make a big deal of it, but I exceed the rated weight capacity for most of these products. For the most part, they all still performed as expected, though maybe with a little less range or speed. No devices were harmed during this roundup.     
Lastly, if you plan on getting into 
, 
. Leave enough space between yourself and both cars and riders on plain old human-powered bikes and 
. Remember you're able to go a lot faster, so ride and pass with caution. Make sure to charge your battery and check on your tires. And, most important, always wear a helmet when you ride.     
